All right, so I want to now describe
the modular JDK.
So before Java 9, the JDK was a monolithic set of packages,
packaged into one jar file, the rt.jar,
which any java application would need to deploy
along with it's own code.
The Java platform has grown over time,
to include about 25 different frameworks.
Even if your application only used one class in a package,
you'd need the rt.jar,
which included all of these frameworks.
Project Jigsaw was the name of the project created
to modularize the JDK.
The goals of modularizing the JDK was summarised
by the Project Jigsaw team and restated here:
One, more scalability, by allowing the JDK
to more easily scale down to smaller platforms.
Secondly, improve security by protecting
the internals of the JDK.
Third, improved maintainability by publishing dependencies
and reducing the amount of interdependencies.
Improved application performance,
by allowing configuration flexibility.
And fifth, easier construction of
and maintenance of libraries and large applications.
The Java designers spent a lot of time decoupling
the frameworks and reconstructing the code
into smaller sets of code, a few dozen modules,
that met the objectives that I've just discussed.
The smaller sets of code nicely package
into modular jar files, comprised the Modular JDK.
All right, so I'm going to open a browser now,
and paste in a link, which is available
in the resources section of this video.
And here you can review the Modular JDK specification.
And the Modular JDK is split into two sections, the Java SE,
which is the Java Platform Standard Edition Java SE APIs.
Now these APIs define the core Java Platform
for general-purpose computing.
These APIs are in modules
whose names start with a java.prefix.
All of the modules in the Java SE are standard modules
as defined by the Java Community Process, JCP.
However, not all standard modules defined by the JCP
are in the Java SE, just the foundational standard modules.
A standard module may contain both standard
and non-standard API packages.
A standard package is prefixed with 'java.' or 'javax.',
such as java.lang and javax.net for example.
So the second section in the Modular JDK
is the JDK, the Java Development Kit,
and these APIs that are specific to the JDK.
So these APIs may not necessarily be available
in all implementations of the Java SE Platform.
These APIs are in modules
whose names start with 'jdk.' prefix.
Now these are non-standard modules.
A non-standard module must not export
any standard API packages.
A non-standard package is generally prefixed
with 'jdk.' such as jdk.internal.logger, for example.
So the following diagram is the module graph
of the Modular SE modules, which is part of the modular JDK.
So a module graph is a diagram, which attempts to visualise
the module dependencies of a particular module.
In the diagram below, the java.se module
has dependencies on all of the modules shown,
where as java.base has no dependencies,
but is a required dependency for all the modules shown.
The arrows are called read edges,
read because a module is said to be able to read another
if properly configured as dependent on it.
For example, the java.xml module is said
to read the java.base module.
Note also that a module graph only displays
module dependencies and will not include packages.
And the link there is also available
in the resources section for you to visit
or browse if you wish.
So each module shown is part of the Java API specification.
And it's another link,
which I will just show on a browser now.
We'll go to that, and again that's in
the resources section for this video.
This link gives you all the information
about the java.base module,
and the packages and resources that it contains.
So the java.base module is described
as the foundational APIs of the Java SE Platform,
which includes the core packages
such as java.lang, java.util, java.io, etcetera.
All right, so let's end the video here
and in the next one, I want to just go back
to the command line, and we can actually use
the command line and various tools
to view the standard edition in JDK visible modules.
Let's have a go at doing that, in the next video.